Rework and consolidate OTLP configuration related pages (#17169)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp.mdx

---
title: New Relic OTLP Endpoint
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
  - OTLP
metaDescription: Configure OTLP exporter for New Relic
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

[OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md), or OTLP for short, is a general purpose telemetry data delivery protocol designed for the OpenTelemetry project. Each OpenTelemetry language SDK provides OTLP exporters, and the OpenTelemetry collector has OTLP receivers and exporters. Additionally, various tools outside the OpenTelemetry project have added support for OTLP export.

> New Relic supports native OTLP ingest, and recommends OTLP as the means for sending OpenTelemetry data to New Relic. This document describes New Relic OTLP support, including configuration requirements and recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Relic supports native OTLP ingest and recommends it as the preferred method for sending OpenTelemetry data to the New Relic platform. This document delves into New Relic's OTLP support, including configuration requirements and best practices.
```

Author: I'd like to keep recommendations. Later in the doc, I characterize configuration sections as required or recommended. This phrasing here is a reference to that. Recommended is a better description of these options than calling them a best practice. 

Otherwise, I agree.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Environment
      </th>

      <th>
        gRPC
      </th>

      <th>
        HTTP
      </th>

      <th>
        Endpoint
      </th>

      <th>
        Supported Ports
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        US OTLP
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        `https://otlp.nr-data.net`
      </td>

      <td>
        `443`, `4317`, `4318`
      </td>

    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        EU OTLP
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        `https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net`
      </td>

      <td>
        `443`, `4317`, `4318`
      </td>

    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        US FedRAMP OTLP<br/>(See [FedRAMP compliance](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints/#otlp-api) for more information)
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        `https://gov-otlp.nr-data.net`
      </td>

      <td>
        `443`, `4317`, `4318`
      </td>

    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>

>         Infinite Tracing<br/>(See [best practices](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-concepts/#infinite-tracing)  for endpoint details

Reviewer: @jack-berg This link redirects to the wrong page (and a page I need to remove). I couldn't find other content about infinite tracing in the OTEL docs. Is there a page or section you had in mind for this link?

      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        ✅
      </td>

      <td>
        `https://{trace-observer}`
      </td>

      <td>
        `443`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="note-ports"
    title="Why three ports?"
  >
    OTLP standards designate gRPC traffic to port `4317`, and HTTP traffic to port `4318`. The New Relic US FedRamp Native OTLP endpoint adheres to those specifications. It also allows both gRPC and HTTP traffic on port `443`. For simplicity, you can omit the port since the `https` scheme automatically selects port `443`.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="note-endpoints"
    title="Additional endpoint details"
  >

>     Per the [OpenTelemetry spec](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/protocol/exporter/#endpoint-urls-for-otlphttp) on endpoint URLs for OTLP/HTTP&#x3A; If you are sending OTLP/HTTP traffic and using the signal agnostic environment variable (`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`), you can simply set `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=https://otlp.nr-data.net:{port}` and the exporter should append the appropriate path for the signal type (i.e., `v1/traces` or `v1/metrics`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Per the [OpenTelemetry spec](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/protocol/exporter/#endpoint-urls-for-otlphttp) on endpoint URLs for `OTLP/HTTP&#x3A`. If you are sending OTLP/HTTP traffic and using the signal agnostic environment variable (`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`), you can simply set `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=https://otlp.nr-data.net:{port}` and the exporter should append the appropriate path for the signal type (i.e., `v1/traces` or `v1/metrics`).
```

@jack-berg Is the `;` supposed to be included?

Author: This renders to "on endpoint URLs for OTLP/HTTP: ..."

I repurposed this from somewhere else, but I reworked the punctuation to be less confusing.

The mechanism to configure retry will vary. Some OpenTelemetry SDKs may have language specific environment variables (for example [java supports](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java/tree/main/sdk-extensions/autoconfigure) setting `OTEL_EXPERIMENTAL_EXPORTER_OTLP_RETRY_ENABLED=true`), but there is no general mechanism. Programmatic configuration may be required.

If using the collector, the `otlphttpexporter` and `otlpexporter` retry by default. See [exporterhelper](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md) for more details.

## Config: Metric Aggregation Temporality

Requirement level: **Recommended**

In order to send OTLP metric data to New Relic, you should configure your OTLP metrics exporter to prefer delta [aggregation temporality](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#temporality). While New Relic supports cumulative aggregation temporality, the New Relic metrics architecture is generally a delta metrics system. Using the default cumulative setting will generally incur more memory usage from SDKs and result in high data ingest.

> The mechanism to configure the endpoint will vary, but OpenTelemetry language SDKs generally support setting the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_TEMPORALITY_PREFERENCE=delta` environment variable (see [OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/sdk_exporters/otlp/) for more info). If manually setting temporality as a function of instrument kind, configure as follows:

Reviewer: @jack-berg This sentence is a bit confusing: ` If manually setting temporality as a function of instrument kind, configure as follows:`

Can you clarify where they configure this? Maybe provide an example?

Author: I reworded. For reference, this "as a function of instrument kind" comes directly from the [spec](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/sdk/#metricreader):

> The default output temporality (optional), a function of instrument kind. If not configured, the Cumulative temporality SHOULD be used.

Probably not a good idea to include an example because the details will vary for each language. Best case it that the language supports setting `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_TEMPORALITY_PREFERENCE=delta` as defined above. That's the simplest and best chance of consistency across languages.

- Counter, Asynchronous Counter, Histogram: Delta
- UpDownCounter, Asynchronous UpDownCounter, Gauge, Asynchronous Gauge: Cumulative

> 

Reviewer: @jack-berg Should these be in code format?

Author: Probably not. Its not syntax for a specific language. They're more like english vocabulary words. The [OpenTelemetry specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/api) use them with and without code format, but without more often.
